First version blogpost Michaëla (#501)
ordina-jworks/ordina-jworks.github.io: _posts/2019-04-02-The-Scrum-framework-is-a-liberating-structure.md

---
layout: post
authors: [michaela_broeckx]
title: "The Scrum framework is a Liberating Structure"
image: /img/scrum-is-a-liberating-structure/main-image.png
tags: [Agile, AgileWorks, Scrum, Agile Coaching, Liberating Structures]
category: Agile
comments: true
---

<strong>Scrum is an Agile <em>framework</em>.</strong>

What does that actually mean?
Are we supposed to fill it? 
Could we grab it, put it on the wall and paint our image in it, the way we see it, the way it works for us?

Probably, we can. 

> Seemingly, many organizations attempt to connect the numbers and dots in precisely that way, trying to get a hold on their portfolio planning, and using Scrum for metrics to fill their project reports - solely focusing on accelerating output and pushing velocity through the roof. 

Reviewer: leave the comma
```suggestion
Seemingly, many organizations attempt to connect the numbers and dots in precisely that way, trying to get a hold on their portfolio planning and utilising Scrum for metrics to fill their project reports - solely focusing on accelerating output and pushing velocity through the roof. 
```

But let's be careful, since we can easily get trapped in this. 
A framework isn't there to just fill it and use it. 

> Did we take the time, or do the effort, to ponder over further possibilities, opportunities, that the frame might entail?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Did we take the time or the effort to ponder over further possibilities that the frame might entail?
```

Let it be a window. 
A transparent artifact, always representing a mere part of reality, depending on the spot from where we are and from where we are looking, not <em>at</em> it but <em>through</em> it, giving us an opportunity to inspect what we are spending our efforts on, or maybe... what we are wasting them on?

The power of the Scrum framework is in its simplicity. 
The predictively recurring Scrum events form a synchronized pulse creating a steady heartbeat for the members of the Scrum team. 
The drone is persistently present, but only discretely so, not drawing attention, because the frame is not what it's about. 
It's a minimalist frame, that vanishes after a while, and is merely setting the scene... trying to create a fertile setting for a space in which, as soon as the Scrum team is accustomed to the pattern of the heartbeat, all team members can focus - as one organism - on collaboration, innovation and co-creation.

<img alt="Together, we create" src="{{ '/img/scrum-is-a-liberating-structure/together-we-create.png' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" class="image fit" style="margin:0px auto; max-width: 750px;">

> Interhuman friction due to role shifts, adapting to new responsibilities and accountabilities, as well as difficulties with alignment of expectations are well known characteristics of a team's storming phase. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Interhuman friction due to role shifts, adapting to new responsibilities and accountabilities, as well as difficulties with alignment of expectations are well-known characteristics of a team's storming phase. 
```

> But Tuckman, with his forming, storming, norming and performing model of team dynamics, was only partly right. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But Tuckman, with his forming, storming, norming and performing model of team dynamics was only partly right. 
```

We now know that storming will always be there to some degree, accompanying the complexity and quickly-changing environment of today. 
A team, in fact, is constantly hovering over its storming arrhythmia, longing for it to clear up, using the heartbeat of the framework to gradually pave the road to high performance, focusing on value and gradual improvement.

Indeed, the Scrum framework is a 'liberating structure' in every sense. 
Agreeing as a team on the structure to work with - and taking up one of the roles and its respective responsibilities therein, provides a clarity on what to expect and how to cooperate within that constraint. 
The frame and heartbeat might appear to be limiting structures at first, but once applied as intended, prove to provide liberation – within the safety of knowing that the entire team is referencing through the same framework.

Metaphorically: Imagine a team looking at the sea and the framework is not there. 
What are we looking at? 
What are we seeing? 
What area of the horizon are we exploring? 

It will be hard to be aligned unless someone or something tells us where to look and what to look for. 
Then put the frame, the window, on the beach. 

> All of us are now looking through it – together exploring a far bigger wedge of the sea than we ever could if we were alone. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All of us are looking through it – together, exploring a far bigger wedge of the sea than we ever could imagine doing alone.
```
